# LOD-S-Spatial-Data-Dual-Axis

DATA GATHERING: 
Design a map for the State of New York, which is split up into county subdivisions. I illustrated this by using a categorical color scheme to evaluate the frequency of Spanish speaking households in the state of NY. I gathered the spatial data from census.gov/cig-bin/geo/shape-files and uploaded it onto Tableau. Furthermore, in order to add more context, in relation to the spatial data of Spanish SPeaking households in the state of NY, I added demographic data from the website American Fact Finder grabbed at the level of county subvision in relation to the spatial dataset. Then, I joined these two databases by their own classification of GEOID and changing the GEOID datatype as a string. 

DATA VISUALIZATION: 
I set the Longitude measure to columns and Latitude measure to rows respectively. Then, I added Geometry, GeoID, measure to detail, Name to Tooltip. We can  discern the largest land subvisions by dragging ALand measure to Color. 

Furthermore, I wanted to take the total number of households that speak Spanish within each county subdivision and then compare it to the average number of households that speak Spanish across the entire state of New York. Therefore, I needed to create a calculated field, that can capture the level of granularity at the level at which I can create comparisions within the entire dataset or column that I am trying ot compare or reference too. This is represented by the calculated fixed field of the SUM of Total Estimate of Households that speak Spanish labeled as Linguistic Households. When dragged over to the tooltip, the Linguistic Households measure is fixed to summarize the SUM of all Households that speak Spanish in NY. 

Next, I created a conditional categorical color scheme for county subvisions that have a higher number of Spanish speaking households than the average and another category for when it's lower than the average. To do this, I created a set based off of the column GEOID by formula. Then, I wanted to increase the categorical color scheme by increasing the visual dimensions by color conditional measures as I have implemented. The process to do so, I added another latitude measure to rows. On the second axis, I removed the Set that I had created and added a divergent color scheme that appliess to how many households taht speak spanish in each county. Then I was able to add the second axis and essentially merge both axis on their own respective level of granularity. 
